# FleetIAS
A reversed engineered implementation of Festos Fleetmanager. It was used to integrate with the [situational risk assessment](https://github.com/NachtaktiverHalbaffe/Robotino-Situational-Risk-Assessment) and the [IAS-MES](https://github.com/NachtaktiverHalbaffe/IAS-MES). It was a little side project in my Bachelor thesis and was refactored in my research project also as an little side project. It communicates with IAS-MES to get transportation tasks and delegates them to the connected Robotinos which are either run by the proprietary software or a prototype of an situational risk assessment.

# Dev documentation
## Modules
### Commandserver
#### Commandserver
Runs a TCP server which receives commands and sends them to either a Robotino with the proprietary software or a prototype
#### Robotinoserver
Runs a TCP server which communicates with a Robotino which is run by the proprietary Festo software.

### Robotinomanager
#### RobotinoManager
Manages the Robotino fleet and assigns the transport tasks to them.
#### Robotino
Implements the controls for the commands of the Robotino

### MESCommunicator
#### MESClient
Client which communicates with the IAS-MES. Mainly used to get the transport tasks and set the Robotino state in the IAS-MES
#### ServiceRequests
Generates all needed service requests for communicating with the MES.

### Frontend
#### gui.ui
A UI file which can be used with QTDesigner to design the GUI with a graphical editor
#### ui_form.py
The GUI run by PySide6. Gets autogenerated and is the Python implementation of gui.ui. Doesn't need to be edited, only generated (see section "Generate GUI")

## Generate GUI
1. Edit ``gui.gui`` in QT Designer
2. Run ``pyside6-uic gui.ui -o ui_form.py `` in ``frontend/``
3. Add button callbacks etc. in ``mainwindow.py``

# Manual
## Installation
- Create Python virtual environment: ``python3 -m venv venv ``
- Start virtual enviromnent: ``source venv/bin/activate`` (Linux)
- Install Python packages into virtual environment: ``pip3 install -r requirements.txt``

## Execution
``python3 mainwindow.py`` (inside a virtual environment)

# License
Copyright 2023 NachtaktiverHalbaffe

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
